---
{"title":"Lack of Creation","mood":"sadness","weather":"night","location":"Irivine, CA","dg-publish":true,"dg-note-icon":"death-and-rebirth","tags":["life","creation","creativity","l"],"updated":"2025-04-04","created":"2025-04-04T23:39:16","dg-path":"Journal/Pothole.md","permalink":"/journal/pothole/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"death-and-rebirth"}
---

My lack of creativity is one thing that is slowly being extremely evident, especially as I try to exist in a time where overconsumption has become unbelievably accessible. I try to take some time off my day to create something, anything, from a piece of writing to a page in my passion-project of zine creation. Yet, I am always forced to push it onto the next day.

Exhaustion, depression, uncertainty, all play such a prominent role to my condition, and they are extremely hard to shake off too. I love to create, to imagine, those have always been my strongest suit. However, now, all I do is apply to jobs, barely sleep for the fear of being poor and financial insecure. I wanted so much more out of life. I thought I had time, and I probably do. But, with the recession knocking on our doors, I believe I have already lost all the time I had. Constant news being fed to me also do not hold any better promise. They are filled about how bad the job market is, how lack of funding and stock markets crashing are now resulting in hiring freeze.

As if living through the global Pandemic was not enough for our generation, now we are being forced to battle enemies we never even imagined to encounter. So, through such times, where the time you can afford for yourself is just surviving, how do you create? I am not trying to be the victim here. Anyone can create anything. So can I. However, when will our world birth the time for us to be humans again, be ingenious again. I do not believe God created any human being just for them to be living a life such as ours. One filled with overworking, compensating and cleaning for the messes created by other selfish, inhumane human beings. 