---
{"title":"The Acts of Healing","mood":"optimistic","weather":"night","location":"Dhaka, Bangladesh","dg-publish":true,"dg-note-icon":"butterfly","tags":["life","healing","mental-health","growth","religious-trauma"],"updated":"2025-07-24","created":"2025-07-24T22:46:00","dg-path":"Journal/The Acts of Healing.md","permalink":"/journal/the-acts-of-healing/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"butterfly"}
---

The journey of healing is one I am still on. The route is sometimes kind, sometimes treacherous, but always filled with an opportunity to learn more about myself. You see, the act of healing is a ritual I had to familiarize myself with for as long as I began hurting emotionally, and that predates my childhood. I had to learn very early on how to self-regulate, understand my boundaries, and stay alert. So, it came as no surprise that I was a very reserved and guarded child.

However, in my late teens, I started to let loose, but was harshly reminded of how letting others learn of my emotions, my thoughts, and my hurt led them to shame me for feeling so deeply or getting myself into bad situations, deeming me stupid. That did help me a lot to move out of my sheltered understanding of the world around me, but it also warped my self-esteem, inflicting another wound I need to heal to this day.

This segues me to point one of the most harsh truths about healing, which I still carry begrudgingly: how the trauma and hurt inflicted upon us are always non-consensual, yet it somehow comes down to us, the victims, to heal, to fix ourselves for things we ourselves did not want in the first place. I had, and at times still have, a hard time accepting this reality. One thing that did help me a lot is always remembering and empathizing with the people around me. Even though I might be hurting, I never wish this upon others; that much I owe to other beings I directly come in contact with. If I let that compassion slip, I remind myself, I will become just like those out-of-touch and unaware people who hurt me simply for existing, at times.

Another reality of this path to healing is how lonely it can get sometimes. Initially, I also felt a little betrayed and resentful toward my loved ones who did not understand the level of hurt I was in. They would validate my suffering, but I wanted them to come down to my level and hold my hand through this. I know I would do that, but even then, there is no guarantee that will be something the other person, whom I am trying to help, will feel or comprehend. All this to say, grief and healing are complexities experienced uniquely by each person. My grief and my journey of healing are unique to me and are often shaped by my one-of-a-kind experience and perception of the world around me. So, instead of misunderstanding or being dissatisfied by the ways my loved ones have tried to help me, I try to give them the love and appreciation they deserve for even trying, despite not knowing how I am exactly feeling.

In the same vein, I think I would like to further point out the importance of community and the people around you, and how greatly they impact your journey with healing. Healing is an action that can get overwhelming, and I have first-hand experienced it. It is hard but important to see your own failures and short-comings, and still having the desire to fix it, without holding any shame or guilt around those. However, shadow work is no easy task, especially for a beginner, so, I always seek the love and joy blessed to me by my community, filled with the people I love. That love grounds me, and soothes the hurt when I need to let go off my negative self-beliefs. Without it, I have seen myself succumb to the pits of negative self-talk and shame.

Next I want to highlight the importance of a calming and gentle environment in the backdrop of all of these. I am still struggling with working around this, as I do find myself stuck in a space that has caused and opened many of my oldest wounds. It is difficult to be present with your act of growth and self-love, when you are constantly surrounded by all the things that drove you to your wounded state. I try to implement rituals to keep me grounded. Some examples of those are: morning routine, walking, energy cleansing showers, praying or meditating, spending time in my room in silence. I make my room my safe altar, my peace, but I know for many, that is not possible. So, for them, I suggest going out and about, and finding a space for yourself that feels safe. It can be a library, or a trail, even a friend’s house. Finding a safe haven amidst all the chaos of this world is so vital in order to be present with yourself to heal your deepest pains. If none of those work, I suggest you to find a space digitally, be it in a community discord, or playing video games. Even though digital, they still allow you to engage with others and spaces you might escape to if your current environment is not ideal. Although acting as an escapism, I do believe sometimes that is better for your nervous system than being acutely aware of your toxic environment, which can cause anxiety and other issues.

Just like the environment, your daily practices and acts also help you in your journey. When I am at my lowest, I often do not even feel like engaging in any of my hobbies, and that, unfortunately, has been quite a detriment for my well-being. So, now, even if it is for just 30 minutes, I try to engage in at least one of my hobbies, and it often can be as simple as listening to music or daydreams. These allow you to not only to find solace and joy, but also helps you to learn more about yourself and help to shape your understanding of the world around you. An example of this could be, for example, writing. Writing essays has helped me to not only know what kind of topics I find more interesting, but also pushed me to do research and study on the topics I am writing about, allowing me to gain knowledge and awareness. 

Of course, all of these are great, but if you are seriously struggling, please do not shy away from seeking actual professional help. I am by no means a professional and am sharing what has helped me till now. However, I do recognize, some traumas cannot be healed alone or even by loved ones, but require genuine, well-learned methods, and medication that only medical professionals can provide. I too have been in therapy for quite some time now, and a third, unbiased opinion has helped me multiple times. So, please make sure to do so if needed.

With all that being said, I just want to remind you, reader, and myself, to be patient. Healing does not look the same and sometimes, it can even feel like we are going backwards. Yet, we must persevere all our doubts and keep on trying our best to love snd show grace to ourselves, even when it feels like we are still in square one. It takes time and it is not linear, and having just the desire to be better is sometimes all we need on the days everything feels impossible. So, keep on doing your best and loving yourself, even when it feels hard. Your sadness can only truly be understood by you. Hence, you should realize that you are your truest friend, and only you can save yourself. It is lonely, it is unfair, but it is reminder that we really must show our truest and selfless love to ourselves in order to survive and thrive in this life.

